You have now learned the basics of functional safety,
hazard identification, evaluating risk,
and using systems engineering to lower risk.
It's time to introduce the international functional safety standard, ISO 26262.
ISO 26262 provides a framework
for dealing with electronic system malfunctions in passenger vehicles.
In other words, the standard helps you ensure that if your vehicle systems do
not behave as intended the vehicle will not cause injury or harm to a person's health.
Remember the V model we have discussed previously.
ISO 26262 uses the V model to cover the entire vehicle safety lifecycle from planning,
designing, testing, production, and post-production.
Let's take a look at the V model.
It's a little bit more complex than the V model we looked at before,
but the principles are the same.
The left side represents system planning and design.
The right side shows system testing and integration.
The bottom of the V represents subsystems while the top integrated systems.
Note that the V model makes a clear distinction
between hardware development and software development.
Each one has its own miniature V model within the larger model.
Note also that you can connect to the left side of
the V and right side of the V with horizontal lines.
For every test and integration step.
You can go back and verify that the product being
developed actually matches the design specifications.
In the rest of the lessons,
we will go into the details about the planning and design phase.
We will be focusing on these specific parts of the V model.
We will use the Lane Assistance System example to study the concept phase,
product development at system level,
and product development at software and hardware level.
You will gain a basic understanding of what it takes to achieve
ISO 26262 compliance when designing an automotive system.